Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an Acts 2 42 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
So today I am bringing our Roman series to a close.
Right, week one, Jeremy told us we are guilty.
Week two, Helen told us Christ died for us.
And Nick told us last week that we must respond.
Sin, grace, confession.
All leading the road to a promise.
And Paul has been driving towards this moment from the very beginning of Romans.
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved in Romans 10, 13.
So let's all read that together, shall we?
Everyone, come on, everyone.
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Many of us believe we are saved by grace, but we live like we are on probation.
Paul actually anticipated this struggle earlier in Romans, in Romans 5 he says, therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God.
He doesn't say we are working toward peace.
He says we have peace.
It's a past tense.
Be honest, who here has ever had the thought, I'm just not good enough for God.
Raise your hand.
I definitely have that thought sounds humble, but actually it quietly assumes that salvation depends on your goodness in the first place.
The gospel doesn't say you were almost good enough.
It says Christ was completely sufficient.
Paul has written one of the most freeing sentences in the entire Bible.
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Not might be, not could be, not saved in probation, will be.
Everyone say that, will be.
Everyone.
Paul begins with the most explosive word in that verse.
To a first century Jew, that word was disruptive, because it meant Gentiles, outsiders, former idol worshipers, people who, with complicated pasts, people who didn't grow up in church.
And if you didn't grow up in church, if your journey has been messy, if you feel like you're the late addition to the family of faith, that word was written with you in mind.
But everyone doesn't just remove cultural barriers, it removes emotional ones too.
It destroys that religious presumption of, of course I'm saved.
I've always been around this.
I grew up in a Christian home.
It destroys spiritual despair.
There's no way God could love me.
He'd never want someone like me.
Because if you think you deserve salvation, you don't.
If you think you're disqualified from salvation, you're not.
That word, everyone,
levels the ground at the foot of the cross.
No VIP line, no back entrance, no spiritual CV required.
But this wasn't a new idea that Paul invented.
In Joel 2.32 we read, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Paul is quoting a prophet who spoke to people in crisis, invasion, fear, national collapse.
And God's answer wasn't fix it yourselves.
It was, call on me.
The invitation has always been wider than people expected.
And that includes to all of you.
Three Romans, Paul has spent chapters taking us into deep theological waters.
Predestination, calling, justification, glorification, he stretches our minds with a God who foreknew, predestined, called, justified, and glorified.
It's big.
It's waiting.
It's God-sized.
And then he turns and it's almost disarmingly.
He says, everyone who calls.
Who calls?
Do you see what he's doing?
God's sovereignty does not cancel human invitation.
The God who ordains the ends also ordains the means.
The door is not locked from the inside.
It's open.
John Wesley.
The founder of Methodism used a simple picture to describe salvation, a house.
He said, salvation is like approaching a house with three parts.
First, there's the porch.
That's where grace meets us.
The grace that goes before, it's that stirring in your heart, that sense that maybe you need God, that moment when you realize, I can't fix this on my own.
You're not inside yet, but you're not far away either.
You're standing on the porch, aware.
Then there's the door.
The door is faith.
The door is justification.
The door is the moment you step through and trust Christ.
Not just intellectually, but personally.
You stop admiring the house from the outside and you walk in.
Then there's the house itself.
That sanctification.
That's the long, beautiful process of growing, stumbling, learning obedience, becoming more like Jesus.
The daily life with Him.
But here's the part I don't want you to miss.
The door is open.
Can everyone say that together?
The porch exists because there's a door.
No one stands on the porch of a boarded-up house, do they?
Maybe it was a conversation that wouldn't leave your mind or a moment when worship suddenly felt personal, you felt all the emotions come in.
That wasn't a coincidence.
Jesus says in John 644, no one comes to me unless the Father draws them.
Even your curiosity about God is evidence of grace already at work.
You didn't wonder toward God alone.
You were being welcomed.
Paul says, everyone who calls in the name of the Lord.
That phrase reaches back into the Old Testament.
To call in the name wasn't about reciting a formula.
It meant appealing to somebody's character, entrusting yourself to who they are.
It's not a technique, it's trust.
It's not about saying the right words.
It's about surrender.
Have you ever tried to pray the right prayer?
Like if you could just arrange the words perfectly, God would respond faster.
Like heaven is waiting for proper grammar.
I wouldn't do very well if that would try.
If your car broke down, you wouldn't call a roadside assistance and explain how an engine worked, would you?
You'd say, I need help.
That's it.
Some of us might try and sound a bit spiritual though, wouldn't they?
We'd say like, Lord, if it aligns with your sovereign mechanical purposes.
Meanwhile, heaven is saying, you can just say help.
Salvation begins not when you impress God with your knowledge, but when you admit you can't rescue yourself.
That's what calling is.
It's not polished, it's surrendered.
I want you to just think about the thief on the cross in Luke 23.
Then he said, which is a thief, Jesus remember me when you come into your kingdom.
And Jesus answered him, truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise.
He didn't pray a polished prayer.
He didn't have time to prove anything.
He just said, Jesus remember me.
And Jesus responded immediately.
This is what I find
quite remarkable.
The thief had no time for spiritual improvement, no baptism class, no server team, no opportunity to prove transformation, which meant his salvation rested entirely on Christ, not progress.
I think this story exists so nobody can say I came too late.
It's just grace.
I want you to turn to the person next to you and say, it's not about performance.
Now I want you to say, it's about dependence.
The power of the call is not in the strength of your voice.
It's in the reliability of the one you're calling.
If you're drowning, you wouldn't stay drowning,
to negotiate a rescue strategy, would you?
You'd just reach.
We often evaluate our salvation by the intensity of our prayers.
Oh, by the works we do, God evaluates it by the sufficiency of his son.
The third part of that verse will be saved.
Why does certainty make us feel uncomfortable?
Is it because everywhere else in life security depends on performance?
Jobs can be lost.
Relationships can break.
Promises can get broken.
So we project that instability onto God.
But I want you to listen to how Paul builds in here.
So it's going to be up on the screen.
Romans 8, 28.
And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose.
For those God fondue, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters, and those he predestined he also called.
Those he called he also justified.
Those he justified he also glorified.
What then shall we say in response to these things?
If God is for us, who can be against us?
He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for all of us.
How will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things?
Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen?
It is God who justifies.
Who then is the one who condemns?
No one.
Christ Jesus who died, more than that, who was raised to life
is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
He shall separate us from the love of God, shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword, as it is written, for your sake we face death all day long.
We consider the sheep to be slaughtered.
No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
for I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor demons neither present nor the future nor any power neither height nor depth or anything else in all creation will ever be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
He justifies God does.
He condemns no one.
He separates nothing.
Now you say it.
He justifies.
Who condemns?
Who separates?
If you could lose your salvation through your weakness, you would have to be stronger than God's grip.
Imagine if this only works when you drove perfectly.
Imagine this is a seatbelt, not a plain seatbelt.
Imagine if it only locked when you stayed in your lane, only when you never drifted, only when you never made a mistake.
Would you feel safe?
Of course you wouldn't.
Because that defeats the entire purpose.
This is not designed for perfect drivers.
It is designed for collisions.
It is designed for sudden stops.
It's designed for the moment you don't see coming.
You don't sit in your driveway in the morning and think, I'm just going to crash gently to see if it still works.
You trust what was engineered before you ever turned the key.
You don't buckle up because you're confident in your driving.
You buckle up because you know you're human.
Salvation is not a reward for steadily driving.
It is security for floor drivers.
If this only worked when you didn't need it, it wouldn't be safety.
And if grace only worked when you were strong, it wouldn't be grace.
Some of you might be living that the seatbelt only activates on your good days.
Like it only tightens it when you've read enough of your Bible.
Like it locks when you pray long enough.
Like it releases if you start to doubt.
But that's not how this works.
This bell doesn't ask how well you drove this week.
It simply holds when impact comes.
And listen carefully.
The cross was not installed because you're a careful driver.
It was installed because God knew you weren't.
And if you could fall out of salvation every time you failed, then the cross would be weaker than your sin.
And it's not.
You are not secured because you perform well.
You are secured because Christ finished the work.
And when life gets hard, when you stumble, when you doubt, when you sin and feels ashamed, grace doesn't disengage.
It holds.
When Jesus said it is finished, he meant it.
Finished means the work is settled.
We grow from that foundation.
We don't rebuild it every week.
Yes, we repent.
Yes, we fight sin.
Yes, we grow.
But we do it from security, not for security.
When you fall, you don't fall out of his hand.
You fall into it.
Let me just say something gently.
but clearly.
Some of you are tired.
Not because following Jesus is heavy, but because you're trying to carry something he's already carried.
Grace offens us.
I want you to think about the older brother in Luke 15.
The prodigal comes home
Celebration begins and the older brother is angry.
Why?
Because grace, given freely, feels unfair to people trying to earn belongings.
So when the protocol comes home, the father says, all I have is yours.
We would rather contribute than receive.
We'd rather say, I'm saved because I've been consistent.
I'm saved because I serve.
I'm saved because I'm not like how I used to be.
I'm saved because I try harder than most.
That feels safer, right?
Because if I contribute to it, then I can control it.
If I help build it, then I can help protect it.
But Grace says you bought nothing to the table except the sin that made it necessary.
And that kind of stings.
Have you ever tried to pay for dinner and then somebody says, now I've got it?
And then there's that awkward tension and you reach for your wallet.
Are you sure?
Why?
Because receiving feels vulnerable.
Receiving admits need.
Receiving means you cannot repay.
Now multiply that by eternity.
Salvation is like that.
Except the cost wasn't a meal.
It was the cross.
If Christ paid the full price, you cannot add to it.
But if you cannot add to it, you cannot subtract from it.
You are saved because Christ is faithful, not because you are steady.
I just want to talk about works for a moment.
This came up at Life Group the other day.
In James 2, it says, faith without works is dead.
Yes, works matter.
But works are evidence, not payment.
Fruit does not make the tree alive.
Life
produces fruit.
Salvation is the moment God declares you righteous.
Sanctification is the lifetime he spends making you look like it.
Salvation frees you from sin's penalty.
Sanctification frees you from its power.
One is a verdict, the other is transformation.
And if you mix them up, you will live your life exhausted.
If you try to sanctify yourself enough to feel saved, you will never rest.
because you will always see what needs fixing.
But when you understand that salvation comes first, that verdict is already in.
Then obedience stops being a desperate attempt to earn love.
It becomes a grateful response to love already given.
We grow from security, not for it.
But assurance is not permission to sin.
It's power to fight it.
Let me just bring this in.
Picture a child crossing a busy road holding her father's hand.
She might feel small.
She might stumble.
She might wonder if she's holding tight enough.
But her safety does not depend on the strength of her grip.
It depends on his.
Isaiah 41 says, for I am the Lord your God who takes hold of your right hand and says to you, do not fear I will help you.
God doesn't say, hold tighter.
He says, I am holding you.
Because your safety was never in your grip.
It was always in his hand.
Parents, when your child grabs your hand in a traffic, who is actually responsible, you are.
And the gospel says this, everyone who calls will be saved.
not might be, not until they mess up, not as long as they perform, will be.
Not because you prayed perfectly, not because you've had a good month, not because you've attended church, but because Christ finished the work.
And according to Romans 8, nothing, not death, not life, not your past, not your failure, not your anxiety, nothing.
can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus.
So hear me.
If you have called on him, stop resentencing yourself to a crime God has already pardoned.
Stop trying to repay a debt that's already been cleared.
Stop living like the cross was a down payment.
It was full payment, rest,
And if you haven't called, call.
Not with impressive words, but with honesty.
Because Emmanuel, God with us, is not waiting for you to become impressive.
He's waiting for you to surrender.
And when you call, you will be saved.
The door is open.
And even when you stumble afterward, remember this.
You don't fall out of his hand.
You fall in it.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.livechurchdorrington.com.